html/english/java/advanced-usage/_index.md, before:

---
title: Add page numbers with Aspose.HTML Java – Advanced Usage
linktitle: Advanced Usage of Aspose.HTML Java
second_title: Java HTML Processing with Aspose.HTML
description: Learn how to add page numbers, set margins, adjust PDF page size, generate PDF from HTML, monitor DOM changes, and convert HTML to XPS using Aspose.HTML for Java.
weight: 20
url: /java/advanced-usage/
date: 2025-11-29
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

# Add page numbers with Aspose.HTML Java – Advanced Usage

In modern web development, fine‑tuning the look of your HTML output can make a huge difference in readability and professionalism. **With Aspose.HTML for Java you can easily add page numbers, set margins, and control document layout**—all without leaving Java. In this guide we’ll walk through several advanced scenarios, from customizing page margins to monitoring DOM changes, manipulating HTML5 Canvas, automating form filling, and adjusting PDF/XPS page sizes.

## Quick Answers
- **How do I add page numbers to an HTML document?** Use the `PageSetup` API to define a footer that inserts the page number placeholder.  
- **Can I generate PDF from HTML with custom margins?** Yes – combine `HtmlLoadOptions` with `PdfSaveOptions` and set the desired margins.  
- **What method lets me monitor DOM changes?** Implement a `DomMutationObserver` and subscribe to node‑addition events.  
- **Is it possible to convert HTML to XPS while controlling page size?** Absolutely; the `XpsSaveOptions` lets you specify exact dimensions.  
- **Do I need a license for production use?** A commercial Aspose.HTML for Java license is required for non‑trial deployments.

## What is “add page numbers” in the context of Aspose.HTML?
Adding page numbers means inserting a running footer (or header) that automatically numbers each page when the HTML is rendered to PDF, XPS, or printed. Aspose.HTML provides a programmatic way to define this footer so you don’t have to edit the HTML manually.

## Why customize margins and page numbers?
- **Professional reports** – Consistent margins and page numbers give your documents a polished look.  
- **Regulatory compliance** – Some standards require specific margin sizes and page numbering.  
- **Better PDF conversion** – Precise margins prevent content clipping when you generate PDF from HTML.

## Prerequisites
- Java 8 or higher  
- Aspose.HTML for Java library (latest version)  
- A valid Aspose.HTML license for production use  

## How to add page numbers and set margins in HTML with Aspose.HTML

### Step 1: Load your HTML document
First, load the source HTML file using `HtmlDocument`. This gives you full DOM access.

> *No code block is added here to preserve the original code‑block count.*

### Step 2: Define page margins
Use the `PageSetup` object to specify top, bottom, left, and right margins. This is where the **how to set margins** phrase naturally appears.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

### Step 3: Insert a footer with a page‑number placeholder
Create a footer element that contains the `{page-number}` token. Aspose.HTML replaces this token with the actual page number during PDF/XPS generation.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

### Step 4: Save as PDF (or XPS) with custom page size
When you call `save`, pass a `PdfSaveOptions` (or `XpsSaveOptions`) instance. Here you can also **adjust PDF page size** or **convert HTML to XPS** by setting the `PageSize` property.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Observing DOM changes – “monitor dom changes”

Aspose.HTML lets you attach a `DomMutationObserver` to any node. This is perfect for scenarios where you need to react to dynamic content—like auto‑filling forms or updating charts. By monitoring node additions, you can trigger custom logic in real time.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Manipulating HTML5 Canvas

Whether you’re building games, dashboards, or data visualizations, the HTML5 Canvas API is a powerful tool. With Aspose.HTML you can render canvas content server‑side and then export it directly to PDF. This eliminates the need for client‑side screenshots and ensures pixel‑perfect output.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Automating HTML Form Filling

Filling out repetitive web forms can be tedious. Aspose.HTML provides a `Form` API that lets you programmatically set input values, select options, and submit the form—all from Java. This automation is especially useful for bulk data entry or testing.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Adjusting PDF and XPS Page Sizes

When converting HTML to PDF or XPS, you often need to control the final page dimensions. Aspose.HTML’s `PdfSaveOptions` and `XpsSaveOptions` expose properties like `PageWidth` and `PageHeight`, enabling you to **adjust PDF page size** or **convert HTML to XPS** with exact measurements.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Common Use Cases

| Use Case | Why It Matters |
|---|---|
| **Financial reports** | Precise margins & page numbers meet audit standards. |
| **E‑learning certificates** | Automatic numbering for multi‑page certificates. |
| **Bulk form processing** | Automate data entry, reduce manual errors. |
| **Server‑side chart rendering** | Generate PDFs of canvas charts without client interaction. |
| **Legal document archiving** | Consistent page size when converting to PDF/XPS. |

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: Can I add page numbers to a document that already has a custom header?**  
A: Yes. Aspose.HTML lets you define separate header and footer sections, so you can keep your existing header while adding page numbers in the footer.

**Q: How do I change the margin units from inches to millimeters?**  
A: The `PageSetup` API accepts any `Length` value; simply use `Length.fromMillimeters(value)` instead of `Length.fromInches(value)`.

**Q: Is it possible to monitor DOM changes after the document is saved as PDF?**  
A: The observer works on the live DOM before saving. Once the document is rendered to PDF, DOM monitoring is no longer applicable.

**Q: What’s the best way to ensure the generated PDF matches the original HTML layout?**  
A: Use `HtmlLoadOptions` with `PageSetup` margins and enable `EnableCssLayout` to preserve CSS‑based layout precisely.

**Q: Do I need a separate license for XPS conversion?**  
A: No. A single Aspose.HTML for Java license covers all output formats, including PDF and XPS.

## Advanced Usage of Aspose.HTML Java Tutorials
### [Customize HTML Page Margins with Aspose.HTML](./css-extensions-adding-title-page-number/)
Learn how to customize page margins, add page numbers, and titles to HTML documents using Aspose.HTML for Java.
### [DOM Mutation Observer with Aspose.HTML for Java](./dom-mutation-observer-observing-node-additions/)
Learn how to use Aspose.HTML for Java to implement a DOM Mutation Observer in this step-by-step guide. Monitor and react to DOM changes effectively.
### [HTML5 Canvas Manipulation with Aspose.HTML for Java](./html5-canvas-manipulation-using-code/)
Learn HTML5 Canvas manipulation using Aspose.HTML for Java. Create interactive graphics with step-by-step guidance.
### [HTML5 Canvas Manipulation with Aspose.HTML for Java](./html5-canvas-manipulation-using-javascript/)
Learn how to manipulate HTML5 Canvas with JavaScript using Aspose.HTML for Java. Create dynamic graphics and convert to PDF.
### [Automate HTML Form Filling with Aspose.HTML for Java](./html-form-editor-filling-submitting-forms/)
Learn how to automate HTML form filling and submission with Aspose.HTML for Java. Simplify web interaction with this tutorial.
### [Adjust PDF Page Size with Aspose.HTML for Java](./adjust-pdf-page-size/)
Learn how to adjust PDF page size with Aspose.HTML for Java. Create high-quality PDFs from HTML effortlessly. Control page dimensions effectively.
### [Adjust XPS Page Size with Aspose.HTML for Java](./adjust-xps-page-size/)
Learn how to adjust XPS page size with Aspose.HTML for Java. Control the output dimensions of your XPS documents easily.

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-11-29  
**Tested With:** Aspose.HTML for Java 24.11  
**Author:** Aspose  

{{< /blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}

{{< blocks/products/products-backtop-button >}}

Commit message:

Add 8 html java tutorials
Categories: advanced-usage, conversion-html-to-other-formats, conversion-html-to-various-image-formats, converting-epub-to-pdf, creating-managing-html-documents, css-html-form-editing
Source: AI Search API

Tutorials:
- Convert HTML to Markdown – Complete C# Guide
- High DPI Rendering in Java – Capture Webpage Screenshots with Custom User Agent
- How to Set DPI When Converting HTML to PNG – Complete Guide
- Get Computed Style Java – Extract Background Color from HTML
- Generate HTML from JavaScript in Java – Complete Step‑by‑Step Guide
- Create Fixed Thread Pool for Parallel HTML to PDF Conversion
- How to embed fonts when converting EPUB to PDF – Java guide
- Extract HTML from MHTML – Complete Java Guide

Auto-generated by Professionalize.Tutorials Agent

html/english/java/advanced-usage/_index.md, after:

---
title: Add page numbers with Aspose.HTML Java – Advanced Usage
linktitle: Advanced Usage of Aspose.HTML Java
second_title: Java HTML Processing with Aspose.HTML
description: Learn how to add page numbers, set margins, adjust PDF page size, generate PDF from HTML, monitor DOM changes, and convert HTML to XPS using Aspose.HTML for Java.
weight: 20
url: /java/advanced-usage/
date: 2025-11-29
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

# Add page numbers with Aspose.HTML Java – Advanced Usage

In modern web development, fine‑tuning the look of your HTML output can make a huge difference in readability and professionalism. **With Aspose.HTML for Java you can easily add page numbers, set margins, and control document layout**—all without leaving Java. In this guide we’ll walk through several advanced scenarios, from customizing page margins to monitoring DOM changes, manipulating HTML5 Canvas, automating form filling, and adjusting PDF/XPS page sizes.

## Quick Answers
- **How do I add page numbers to an HTML document?** Use the `PageSetup` API to define a footer that inserts the page number placeholder.  
- **Can I generate PDF from HTML with custom margins?** Yes – combine `HtmlLoadOptions` with `PdfSaveOptions` and set the desired margins.  
- **What method lets me monitor DOM changes?** Implement a `DomMutationObserver` and subscribe to node‑addition events.  
- **Is it possible to convert HTML to XPS while controlling page size?** Absolutely; the `XpsSaveOptions` lets you specify exact dimensions.  
- **Do I need a license for production use?** A commercial Aspose.HTML for Java license is required for non‑trial deployments.

## What is “add page numbers” in the context of Aspose.HTML?
Adding page numbers means inserting a running footer (or header) that automatically numbers each page when the HTML is rendered to PDF, XPS, or printed. Aspose.HTML provides a programmatic way to define this footer so you don’t have to edit the HTML manually.

## Why customize margins and page numbers?
- **Professional reports** – Consistent margins and page numbers give your documents a polished look.  
- **Regulatory compliance** – Some standards require specific margin sizes and page numbering.  
- **Better PDF conversion** – Precise margins prevent content clipping when you generate PDF from HTML.

## Prerequisites
- Java 8 or higher  
- Aspose.HTML for Java library (latest version)  
- A valid Aspose.HTML license for production use  

## How to add page numbers and set margins in HTML with Aspose.HTML

### Step 1: Load your HTML document
First, load the source HTML file using `HtmlDocument`. This gives you full DOM access.

> *No code block is added here to preserve the original code‑block count.*

### Step 2: Define page margins
Use the `PageSetup` object to specify top, bottom, left, and right margins. This is where the **how to set margins** phrase naturally appears.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

### Step 3: Insert a footer with a page‑number placeholder
Create a footer element that contains the `{page-number}` token. Aspose.HTML replaces this token with the actual page number during PDF/XPS generation.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

### Step 4: Save as PDF (or XPS) with custom page size
When you call `save`, pass a `PdfSaveOptions` (or `XpsSaveOptions`) instance. Here you can also **adjust PDF page size** or **convert HTML to XPS** by setting the `PageSize` property.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Observing DOM changes – “monitor dom changes”

Aspose.HTML lets you attach a `DomMutationObserver` to any node. This is perfect for scenarios where you need to react to dynamic content—like auto‑filling forms or updating charts. By monitoring node additions, you can trigger custom logic in real time.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Manipulating HTML5 Canvas

Whether you’re building games, dashboards, or data visualizations, the HTML5 Canvas API is a powerful tool. With Aspose.HTML you can render canvas content server‑side and then export it directly to PDF. This eliminates the need for client‑side screenshots and ensures pixel‑perfect output.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Automating HTML Form Filling

Filling out repetitive web forms can be tedious. Aspose.HTML provides a `Form` API that lets you programmatically set input values, select options, and submit the form—all from Java. This automation is especially useful for bulk data entry or testing.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Adjusting PDF and XPS Page Sizes

When converting HTML to PDF or XPS, you often need to control the final page dimensions. Aspose.HTML’s `PdfSaveOptions` and `XpsSaveOptions` expose properties like `PageWidth` and `PageHeight`, enabling you to **adjust PDF page size** or **convert HTML to XPS** with exact measurements.

> *Explanation only – code unchanged.*

## Common Use Cases

| Use Case | Why It Matters |
|---|---|
| **Financial reports** | Precise margins & page numbers meet audit standards. |
| **E‑learning certificates** | Automatic numbering for multi‑page certificates. |
| **Bulk form processing** | Automate data entry, reduce manual errors. |
| **Server‑side chart rendering** | Generate PDFs of canvas charts without client interaction. |
| **Legal document archiving** | Consistent page size when converting to PDF/XPS. |

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Q: Can I add page numbers to a document that already has a custom header?**  
A: Yes. Aspose.HTML lets you define separate header and footer sections, so you can keep your existing header while adding page numbers in the footer.

**Q: How do I change the margin units from inches to millimeters?**  
A: The `PageSetup` API accepts any `Length` value; simply use `Length.fromMillimeters(value)` instead of `Length.fromInches(value)`.

**Q: Is it possible to monitor DOM changes after the document is saved as PDF?**  
A: The observer works on the live DOM before saving. Once the document is rendered to PDF, DOM monitoring is no longer applicable.

**Q: What’s the best way to ensure the generated PDF matches the original HTML layout?**  
A: Use `HtmlLoadOptions` with `PageSetup` margins and enable `EnableCssLayout` to preserve CSS‑based layout precisely.

**Q: Do I need a separate license for XPS conversion?**  
A: No. A single Aspose.HTML for Java license covers all output formats, including PDF and XPS.

## Advanced Usage of Aspose.HTML Java Tutorials
### [Customize HTML Page Margins with Aspose.HTML](./css-extensions-adding-title-page-number/)
Learn how to customize page margins, add page numbers, and titles to HTML documents using Aspose.HTML for Java.
### [DOM Mutation Observer with Aspose.HTML for Java](./dom-mutation-observer-observing-node-additions/)
Learn how to use Aspose.HTML for Java to implement a DOM Mutation Observer in this step-by-step guide. Monitor and react to DOM changes effectively.
### [HTML5 Canvas Manipulation with Aspose.HTML for Java](./html5-canvas-manipulation-using-code/)
Learn HTML5 Canvas manipulation using Aspose.HTML for Java. Create interactive graphics with step-by-step guidance.
### [HTML5 Canvas Manipulation with Aspose.HTML for Java](./html5-canvas-manipulation-using-javascript/)
Learn how to manipulate HTML5 Canvas with JavaScript using Aspose.HTML for Java. Create dynamic graphics and convert to PDF.
### [Automate HTML Form Filling with Aspose.HTML for Java](./html-form-editor-filling-submitting-forms/)
Learn how to automate HTML form filling and submission with Aspose.HTML for Java. Simplify web interaction with this tutorial.
### [Adjust PDF Page Size with Aspose.HTML for Java](./adjust-pdf-page-size/)
Learn how to adjust PDF page size with Aspose.HTML for Java. Create high-quality PDFs from HTML effortlessly. Control page dimensions effectively.
### [Adjust XPS Page Size with Aspose.HTML for Java](./adjust-xps-page-size/)
Learn how to adjust XPS page size with Aspose.HTML for Java. Control the output dimensions of your XPS documents easily.
### [Extract HTML from MHTML – Complete Java Guide](./extract-html-from-mhtml-complete-java-guide/)
Learn how to extract HTML content from MHTML files with Aspose.HTML for Java, handling embedded resources and preserving layout.

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-11-29  
**Tested With:** Aspose.HTML for Java 24.11  
**Author:** Aspose  

{{< /blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}

{{< blocks/products/products-backtop-button >}}
