html/hongkong/java/conversion-html-to-other-formats/_index.md, before:

---
date: 2025-12-18
description: 學習使用 Aspose.HTML 在 Java 中將 HTML 轉換為 PDF、MHTML、XPS、Markdown、SVG 等格式，輕鬆實現高品質文件轉換。
linktitle: Conversion - HTML to Other Formats
second_title: Java HTML Processing with Aspose.HTML
title: HTML 轉 PDF（Java） - 轉換 - HTML 轉其他格式教學
url: /zh-hant/java/conversion-html-to-other-formats/
weight: 25
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

# HTML to PDF Java - 轉換 - HTML 其他格式教學

在當今快速變遷的數位環境中，能夠直接在 Java 應用程式中 **convert HTML to PDF Java** 以及其他格式，是一項顛覆性的技術。無論您需要可列印的報告、離線歸檔，或是跨平台文件，Aspose.HTML for Java 都能提供可靠且高品質的解決方案。本指南將帶您逐步了解完整的轉換教學，說明如何將 HTML、Markdown 與 SVG 內容轉換為 PDF、MHTML、XPS、影像等多種格式。

## 快速解答
- **What library handles HTML to PDF in Java?** Aspose.HTML for Java.  
- **Can I convert SVG to an image with Java?** Yes – Aspose.HTML supports SVG‑to‑PNG/JPEG conversion.  
- **Is Markdown to HTML conversion supported?** Absolutely, using the same Aspose.HTML API.  
- **Do I need a license for production use?** A commercial license is required for non‑evaluation deployments.  
- **Which Java versions are compatible?** Java 8 and later are fully supported.

## 什麼是 HTML to PDF Java？
在 Java 環境中將 HTML 轉換為 PDF，意指將網頁樣式的標記轉換為分頁、可列印的文件。此過程會保留 CSS 樣式、字型與版面配置，產生像素完美的 PDF，方便分享、列印或歸檔。

## 為何使用 Aspose.HTML for Java？
- **高保真渲染** – 正確呈現 CSS3、JavaScript 與現代網頁字型。  
- **無外部相依** – 純 Java API，無需本機二進位檔。  
- **廣泛格式支援** – 除 PDF 外，亦可輸出 MHTML、XPS、SVG、PNG、JPEG 等。  
- **企業級可擴充** – 能輕鬆處理大型文件與批次轉換。

## 主要轉換主題

### HTML to PDF Java
Aspose.HTML 讓 HTML 轉 PDF 變得簡單。API 只需讀取 HTML 檔案或字串，即可呼叫單一方法寫出 PDF 文件。

### Converting HTML to MHTML (Java)
MHTML 會將網頁及其資源封裝成單一檔案，適合離線歸檔。Aspose.HTML 提供乾淨的一步式轉換。

### Converting HTML to XPS (Java)
XPS 為 Microsoft 的列印就緒格式。使用 Aspose.HTML 您可以產生在各平台上保持版面一致性的 XPS 檔案。

### Converting Markdown to HTML (Java)
Markdown 的簡潔結合 HTML 的豐富。將 Markdown 文件轉換為完整樣式的 HTML 頁面，方便網路發佈。

### Converting SVG to Image (Java)
將向量圖形轉為點陣圖（PNG、JPEG），可用於電子郵件、報告或縮圖。

### Converting SVG to PDF (Java)
直接將可縮放的 SVG 藝術作品嵌入 PDF，且不失真。

### Converting SVG to XPS (Java)
從 SVG 來源建立 XPS 文件，確保列印與分享的可靠性。

## 詳細轉換指南

### Converting HTML to PDF
Aspose.HTML for Java 簡化了 HTML‑to‑PDF 工作流程。請參考專屬教學，獲得逐步說明、設定技巧與最佳實踐。

### Converting HTML to MHTML
學習如何將網頁封存為 MHTML 檔案，將所有相關資源保存在單一封裝中。

### Converting HTML to XPS
使用最少程式碼，從 HTML 內容建立跨平台的 XPS 文件。

### Converting Markdown to HTML
將輕量的 Markdown 檔案轉換為豐富的 HTML 標記，立即可供網站部署。

### Converting SVG to Image
從 SVG 向量產生高解析度的 PNG 或 JPEG 影像，供任何下游使用。

### Converting SVG to PDF
產生包含向量圖形的 PDF 檔案，縮放時不會出現像素化。

### Converting SVG to XPS
將 SVG 圖形轉換為 XPS 格式，確保在各設備上的列印一致性。

總結來說，精通 **html to pdf java** 以及更廣泛的轉換功能，能為任何 Java 開發者開啟強大的文件工作流程。Aspose.HTML for Java 提供完整且易於遵循的教學，讓您能將 HTML、Markdown 與 SVG 轉換為所需格式，且品質卓越、控制完整。

## Conversion - HTML to Other Formats Tutorials
### [Converting HTML to PDF](./convert-html-to-pdf/)
了解如何使用 Aspose.HTML 在 Java 中將 HTML 轉換為 PDF，輕鬆產生高品質的 PDF 文件。
### [Converting HTML to MHTML](./convert-html-to-mhtml/)
使用 Aspose.HTML for Java 輕鬆將 HTML 轉換為 MHTML，依照步驟指南完成高效的 HTML‑to‑MHTML 轉換。
### [Converting HTML to XPS](./convert-html-to-xps/)
學習如何使用 Aspose.HTML for Java 無縫將 HTML 轉換為 XPS，輕鬆建立跨平台文件。
### [Converting Markdown to HTML](./convert-markdown-to-html/)
使用 Aspose.HTML for Java 在 Java 中順暢將 Markdown 轉為 HTML，依照步驟指南簡化文件轉換需求。
### [Converting SVG to Image](./convert-svg-to-image/)
了解如何使用 Aspose.HTML 在 Java 中將 SVG 轉為影像，提供高品質輸出的完整指南。
### [Converting SVG to PDF](./convert-svg-to-pdf/)
使用 Aspose.HTML 在 Java 中將 SVG 轉為 PDF，提供高品質文件轉換的無縫解決方案。
### [Converting SVG to XPS](./convert-svg-to-xps/)
學習如何使用 Aspose.HTML for Java 將 SVG 轉為 XPS，提供簡單、步驟式的無縫轉換指南。

## 常見問題

**Q: Can I use Aspose.HTML for Java in a commercial application?**  
A: Yes. A valid commercial license is required for production use; a free trial is available for evaluation.

**Q: Which Java versions are supported?**  
A: Aspose.HTML for Java supports Java 8, 11, and later versions.

**Q: Does the library handle external CSS and JavaScript?**  
A: Absolutely. The renderer processes linked CSS files and executes JavaScript to ensure the PDF matches the original page layout.

**Q: How large can the HTML files be for conversion?**  
A: The library is optimized for large documents; however, memory consumption grows with page size, so consider streaming large inputs.

**Q: Is it possible to customize PDF metadata during conversion?**  
A: Yes. You can set title, author, subject, and keywords via the `PdfSaveOptions` object before saving.

---

**最後更新：** 2025-12-18  
**測試環境：** Aspose.HTML for Java 24.12  
**作者：** Aspose  

{{< /blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}

{{< blocks/products/products-backtop-button >}}

Commit message:

Add 8 html java tutorials
Categories: advanced-usage, conversion-canvas-to-pdf, conversion-html-to-other-formats, conversion-html-to-various-image-formats, css-html-form-editing
Source: AI Search API

Tutorials:
- HTML to PDF Tutorial: Convert Web Pages to PDF with Java
- Set PDF Page Size in Java – Complete HTML to PDF Guide
- Parse HTML with Java: Extract CSS Property and Get Font Size
- how to capture screenshot of a webpage with Aspose HTML – Java guide
- How to Run Scripts in Java – Complete Guide to Execute JavaScript & Extract Data
- how to query html in Java – load HTML, CSS selector, and extract headings
- How to Convert SVG to PDF/A‑2b with Java – Complete Guide
- Convert HTML to WebP – Java Guide to Save HTML as WebP

Auto-generated by Professionalize.Tutorials Agent

html/hongkong/java/conversion-html-to-other-formats/_index.md, after:

---
date: 2025-12-18
description: 學習使用 Aspose.HTML 在 Java 中將 HTML 轉換為 PDF、MHTML、XPS、Markdown、SVG 等格式，輕鬆實現高品質文件轉換。
linktitle: Conversion - HTML to Other Formats
second_title: Java HTML Processing with Aspose.HTML
title: HTML 轉 PDF（Java） - 轉換 - HTML 轉其他格式教學
url: /zh-hant/java/conversion-html-to-other-formats/
weight: 25
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
{{< blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

# HTML to PDF Java - 轉換 - HTML 其他格式教學

在當今快速變遷的數位環境中，能夠直接在 Java 應用程式中 **convert HTML to PDF Java** 以及其他格式，是一項顛覆性的技術。無論您需要可列印的報告、離線歸檔，或是跨平台文件，Aspose.HTML for Java 都能提供可靠且高品質的解決方案。本指南將帶您逐步了解完整的轉換教學，說明如何將 HTML、Markdown 與 SVG 內容轉換為 PDF、MHTML、XPS、影像等多種格式。

## 快速解答
- **What library handles HTML to PDF in Java?** Aspose.HTML for Java.  
- **Can I convert SVG to an image with Java?** Yes – Aspose.HTML supports SVG‑to‑PNG/JPEG conversion.  
- **Is Markdown to HTML conversion supported?** Absolutely, using the same Aspose.HTML API.  
- **Do I need a license for production use?** A commercial license is required for non‑evaluation deployments.  
- **Which Java versions are compatible?** Java 8 and later are fully supported.

## 什麼是 HTML to PDF Java？
在 Java 環境中將 HTML 轉換為 PDF，意指將網頁樣式的標記轉換為分頁、可列印的文件。此過程會保留 CSS 樣式、字型與版面配置，產生像素完美的 PDF，方便分享、列印或歸檔。

## 為何使用 Aspose.HTML for Java？
- **高保真渲染** – 正確呈現 CSS3、JavaScript 與現代網頁字型。  
- **無外部相依** – 純 Java API，無需本機二進位檔。  
- **廣泛格式支援** – 除 PDF 外，亦可輸出 MHTML、XPS、SVG、PNG、JPEG 等。  
- **企業級可擴充** – 能輕鬆處理大型文件與批次轉換。

## 主要轉換主題

### HTML to PDF Java
Aspose.HTML 讓 HTML 轉 PDF 變得簡單。API 只需讀取 HTML 檔案或字串，即可呼叫單一方法寫出 PDF 文件。

### Converting HTML to MHTML (Java)
MHTML 會將網頁及其資源封裝成單一檔案，適合離線歸檔。Aspose.HTML 提供乾淨的一步式轉換。

### Converting HTML to XPS (Java)
XPS 為 Microsoft 的列印就緒格式。使用 Aspose.HTML 您可以產生在各平台上保持版面一致性的 XPS 檔案。

### Converting Markdown to HTML (Java)
Markdown 的簡潔結合 HTML 的豐富。將 Markdown 文件轉換為完整樣式的 HTML 頁面，方便網路發佈。

### Converting SVG to Image (Java)
將向量圖形轉為點陣圖（PNG、JPEG），可用於電子郵件、報告或縮圖。

### Converting SVG to PDF (Java)
直接將可縮放的 SVG 藝術作品嵌入 PDF，且不失真。

### Converting SVG to XPS (Java)
從 SVG 來源建立 XPS 文件，確保列印與分享的可靠性。

## 詳細轉換指南

### Converting HTML to PDF
Aspose.HTML for Java 簡化了 HTML‑to‑PDF 工作流程。請參考專屬教學，獲得逐步說明、設定技巧與最佳實踐。

### Converting HTML to MHTML
學習如何將網頁封存為 MHTML 檔案，將所有相關資源保存在單一封裝中。

### Converting HTML to XPS
使用最少程式碼，從 HTML 內容建立跨平台的 XPS 文件。

### Converting Markdown to HTML
將輕量的 Markdown 檔案轉換為豐富的 HTML 標記，立即可供網站部署。

### Converting SVG to Image
從 SVG 向量產生高解析度的 PNG 或 JPEG 影像，供任何下游使用。

### Converting SVG to PDF
產生包含向量圖形的 PDF 檔案，縮放時不會出現像素化。

### Converting SVG to XPS
將 SVG 圖形轉換為 XPS 格式，確保在各設備上的列印一致性。

總結來說，精通 **html to pdf java** 以及更廣泛的轉換功能，能為任何 Java 開發者開啟強大的文件工作流程。Aspose.HTML for Java 提供完整且易於遵循的教學，讓您能將 HTML、Markdown 與 SVG 轉換為所需格式，且品質卓越、控制完整。

## Conversion - HTML to Other Formats Tutorials
### [Converting HTML to PDF](./convert-html-to-pdf/)
了解如何使用 Aspose.HTML 在 Java 中將 HTML 轉換為 PDF，輕鬆產生高品質的 PDF 文件。
### [Converting HTML to MHTML](./convert-html-to-mhtml/)
使用 Aspose.HTML for Java 輕鬆將 HTML 轉換為 MHTML，依照步驟指南完成高效的 HTML‑to‑MHTML 轉換。
### [Converting HTML to XPS](./convert-html-to-xps/)
學習如何使用 Aspose.HTML for Java 無縫將 HTML 轉換為 XPS，輕鬆建立跨平台文件。
### [Converting Markdown to HTML](./convert-markdown-to-html/)
使用 Aspose.HTML for Java 在 Java 中順暢將 Markdown 轉為 HTML，依照步驟指南簡化文件轉換需求。
### [Converting SVG to Image](./convert-svg-to-image/)
了解如何使用 Aspose.HTML 在 Java 中將 SVG 轉為影像，提供高品質輸出的完整指南。
### [Converting SVG to PDF](./convert-svg-to-pdf/)
使用 Aspose.HTML 在 Java 中將 SVG 轉為 PDF，提供高品質文件轉換的無縫解決方案。
### [Converting SVG to XPS](./convert-svg-to-xps/)
學習如何使用 Aspose.HTML for Java 將 SVG 轉為 XPS，提供簡單、步驟式的無縫轉換指南。
### [HTML to PDF 教學：使用 Java 將網頁轉換為 PDF](./html-to-pdf-tutorial-convert-web-pages-to-pdf-with-java/)
學習如何使用 Aspose.HTML for Java 將網頁 HTML 轉換為高品質的 PDF 文件。
### [在 Java 中設定 PDF 頁面大小 – 完整 HTML 轉 PDF 教學](./set-pdf-page-size-in-java-complete-html-to-pdf-guide/)
說明如何在 Java 使用 Aspose.HTML 設定 PDF 頁面尺寸，完整的 HTML 轉 PDF 操作指南。

## 常見問題

**Q: Can I use Aspose.HTML for Java in a commercial application?**  
A: Yes. A valid commercial license is required for production use; a free trial is available for evaluation.

**Q: Which Java versions are supported?**  
A: Aspose.HTML for Java supports Java 8, 11, and later versions.

**Q: Does the library handle external CSS and JavaScript?**  
A: Absolutely. The renderer processes linked CSS files and executes JavaScript to ensure the PDF matches the original page layout.

**Q: How large can the HTML files be for conversion?**  
A: The library is optimized for large documents; however, memory consumption grows with page size, so consider streaming large inputs.

**Q: Is it possible to customize PDF metadata during conversion?**  
A: Yes. You can set title, author, subject, and keywords via the `PdfSaveOptions` object before saving.

---

**最後更新：** 2025-12-18  
**測試環境：** Aspose.HTML for Java 24.12  
**作者：** Aspose  

{{< /blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}
{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}

{{< blocks/products/products-backtop-button >}}
